[Project] add Bactteria_Dataset project in dev-1.x (#2568)
open-mmlab/mmsegmentation: projects/medical/2d_image/microscopy_images/bactteria_detection/README.md

# Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy

## Description

> This project support **`Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy `**, and the dataset used in this project can be downloaded from [here](https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/94411).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project support **`Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy`**, and the dataset used in this project can be downloaded from [here](https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/94411).
```

### Prerequisites

> - Python 3.8
> - PyTorch 1.10.0
> - pillow(PIL) 9.3.0
> - scikit-learn(sklearn) 1.2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Python v3.8
- PyTorch v1.10.0
- Pillow (PIL) v9.3.0
- scikit-learn (sklearn) 1.2.0
```

  │   │   │   │   ├── bactteria_detection
  │   │   │   │   │   ├── configs
  │   │   │   │   │   ├── datasets
  │   │   │   │   │   ├── tools
  │   │   │   │   │   ├── data
  │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── images
  │   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── train
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── xxx.png
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── ...
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   └── xxx.png
  │   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── val
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── yyy.png
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── ...
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   └── yyy.png
  │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── masks
  │   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── train
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── xxx.png
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── ...
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   └── xxx.png
  │   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── val
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── yyy.png
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── ...
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   └── yyy.png
```

### Training commands

```shell
mim train mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_PATH}
```

To train on multiple GPUs, e.g. 8 GPUs, run the following command:

```shell
mim train mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_PATH}  --launcher pytorch --gpus 8

> ```

Reviewer: From this config file name, is there no need to use 8 GPUs to train?

| [Bactteria detection](https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/94411) | bacteria          | segmentation | microscopy | 3            | 366/-/-               | yes/-/-                | 2017         | [CC-BY-NC 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) |

|  Class Name  | Num. Train | Pct. Train | Num. Val | Pct. Val | Num. Test | Pct. Test |
| :----------: | :--------: | :--------: | :------: | :------: | :-------: | :-------: |
|  background  |    366     |    85.9    |    -     |    -     |     -     |     -     |
| erythrocytes |    345     |   13.03    |    -     |    -     |     -     |     -     |
| spirochaete  |    288     |    1.07    |    -     |    -     |     -     |     -     |

Note:

- `Pct` means percentage of pixels in this category in all pixels.

### Visualization

![bac](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uni-medical/medical-datasets-visualization/main/2d/semantic_seg/microscopy_images/bactteria_detection/bactteria_detection_dataset.png)

> 

Reviewer: we have a sub-section `## Usage`
please refer to this https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/blob/1.x/projects/example_project/README.md

### Prerequisites

- Python v3.8
- PyTorch v1.10.0
- pillow(PIL) v9.3.0
- scikit-learn(sklearn) v1.2.0
- [MIM](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mim) v0.3.4
- [MMCV](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmcv) v2.0.0rc4
- [MMEngine](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmengine) v0.2.0 or higher
- [MMSegmentation](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation) v1.0.0rc5

All the commands below rely on the correct configuration of `PYTHONPATH`, which should point to the project's directory so that Python can locate the module files. In `bactteria_detection/` root directory, run the following line to add the current directory to `PYTHONPATH`:

```shell
export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`:$PYTHONPATH
```

### Dataset preparing

- download dataset from [here](https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/94411) and decompress data to path `'data/'`.

> - run script `"python tools/prepare_dataset.py"` to format data and change folder structure as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- run script `python tools/prepare_dataset.py` to format data and change folder structure as below.
```

> - run script `"python ../../tools/split_seg_dataset.py"` to split dataset and generate `train.txt`, `val.txt` and `test.txt`. If the label of official validation set and test set can't be obtained, we generate `train.txt` and `val.txt` from the training set randomly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- run script `python ../../tools/split_seg_dataset.py` to split dataset and generate `train.txt`, `val.txt` and `test.txt`. If the label of official validation set and test set can't be obtained, we generate `train.txt` and `val.txt` from the training set randomly.
```

```none

>   mmsegmentation

Reviewer: I think it should add more details about 
1. the path about dataset after decompress, as you just hard code the data_root in `tools/prepare_dataset.py`
2. the relationship between the below table of contents and these commands 
3. dataset split ratio

### Divided Dataset Information

***Note: The table information below is divided by ourselves.***

|  Class Name  | Num. Train | Pct. Train | Num. Val | Pct. Val | Num. Test | Pct. Test |
| :----------: | :--------: | :--------: | :------: | :------: | :-------: | :-------: |
|  background  |    292     |   85.66    |    74    |   86.7   |     -     |     -     |
| erythrocytes |    274     |   13.25    |    71    |  12.29   |     -     |     -     |
| spirochaete  |    231     |    1.09    |    57    |   1.01   |     -     |     -     |

### Training commands

Train models on a single server with one GPU.

```shell
mim train mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_FILE}
```

### Testing commands

Test models on a single server with one GPU.

```shell
mim test mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_FILE}  --checkpoint ${CHECKPOINT_PATH}
```

<!-- List the results as usually done in other model's README. [Example](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/tree/dev-1.x/configs/fcn#results-and-models)

You should claim whether this is based on the pre-trained weights, which are converted from the official release; or it's a reproduced result obtained from retraining the model in this project. -->

## Results

> ### Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy

Reviewer: these results is for random test dataset or official val dataset?

# Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy

## Description

> This project support **`Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy`**, and the dataset used in this project can be downloaded from [here](https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/94411).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project supports **`Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy`**, which can be downloaded from [here](https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/94411).
```

| [Bactteria detection](https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/94411) | bacteria          | segmentation | microscopy | 3            | 366/-/-               | yes/-/-                | 2017         | [CC-BY-NC 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) |

|  Class Name  | Num. Train | Pct. Train | Num. Val | Pct. Val | Num. Test | Pct. Test |
| :----------: | :--------: | :--------: | :------: | :------: | :-------: | :-------: |
|  background  |    366     |    85.9    |    -     |    -     |     -     |     -     |
| erythrocytes |    345     |   13.03    |    -     |    -     |     -     |     -     |
| spirochaete  |    288     |    1.07    |    -     |    -     |     -     |     -     |

Note:

- `Pct` means percentage of pixels in this category in all pixels.

### Visualization

![bac](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uni-medical/medical-datasets-visualization/main/2d/semantic_seg/microscopy_images/bactteria_detection/bactteria_detection_dataset.png)

### Prerequisites

- Python v3.8
- PyTorch v1.10.0

> - pillow(PIL) v9.3.0
> - scikit-learn(sklearn) v1.2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- pillow (PIL) v9.3.0
- scikit-learn (sklearn) v1.2.0
```

  │   │   │   │   │   ├── datasets
  │   │   │   │   │   ├── tools
  │   │   │   │   │   ├── data
  │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── train.txt
  │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── val.txt
  │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── images
  │   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── train
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── xxx.png
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── ...
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   └── xxx.png
  │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── masks
  │   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── train
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── xxx.png
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   ├── ...
  │   │   │   │   |   │   │   │   └── xxx.png
```

### Divided Dataset Information

***Note: The table information below is divided by ourselves.***

|  Class Name  | Num. Train | Pct. Train | Num. Val | Pct. Val | Num. Test | Pct. Test |
| :----------: | :--------: | :--------: | :------: | :------: | :-------: | :-------: |
|  background  |    292     |   85.66    |    74    |   86.7   |     -     |     -     |
| erythrocytes |    274     |   13.25    |    71    |  12.29   |     -     |     -     |
| spirochaete  |    231     |    1.09    |    57    |   1.01   |     -     |     -     |

### Training commands

```shell

> mim train mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_PATH}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mim train mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_FILE}
```
is `FILE` more precise than `PATH`? as `./configs/` is path

```

To train on multiple GPUs, e.g. 8 GPUs, run the following command:

```shell
mim train mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_PATH}  --launcher pytorch --gpus 8
```

### Testing commands

```shell
mim test mmseg ./configs/${CONFIG_PATH}  --checkpoint ${CHECKPOINT_PATH}
```

<!-- List the results as usually done in other model's README. [Example](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation/tree/dev-1.x/configs/fcn#results-and-models)

You should claim whether this is based on the pre-trained weights, which are converted from the official release; or it's a reproduced result obtained from retraining the model in this project. -->

## Results

### Bactteria detection with darkfield microscopy

> |     Method      | Backbone | Crop Size |   lr   | mIoU  | mDice |                                                                                                      config                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: do you share the pre-trained weights with other users?
